docs/intro.md, before:

# Hydra-genetics reports module

The reports module consists of a set of rules for creating various reports of results within the context of Hydra Genetics. Reports included at the moment are:

- [CNV report](/reports/#cnvs)

## How to use the module

Include the module in your Hydra Genetics workflow by loading the module in your Snakefile:

```python
from hydra_genetics.utils.misc import get_module_snakefile

module reports:
    snakefile: get_module_snakefile(config, "hydra-genetics/reports", path="workflow/Snakefile", tag="v0.2.0")
    config: config

use rule * from reports as reports_*
```

## Versioning caveat

The module makes use of the release-please Github action, meaning that the templates get tagged with the version number every time a new release is published. This means that only reports generated from the main branch are guaranteed to be 100% accurate when it comes the version. Any commit between releases will have the version of the most recent release associated with it.

Commit message:

docs: detail how to override rules and keep some defaults
When overriding rules it is not possible to only overload parts of a
section, e.g. only a part of the input. This became a problem after I
changed the way the template is being fetched. I did however find a
workaround which involves making use of the workflow object to fetch
defaults that should not be overloaded.

I haven't tried building this into the logic since that would likely
require a change to the Snakemake codebase. There is an [issue
about this](https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake/issues/928) in
the Snakemake repo, but it hasn't recieved any attention for the
past couple of years, so I assume this is not prioritised.

docs/intro.md, after:

# Hydra-genetics reports module

The reports module consists of a set of rules for creating various reports of results within the context of Hydra Genetics. Reports included at the moment are:

- [CNV report](/reports/#cnvs)

## How to use the module

Include the module in your Hydra Genetics workflow by loading the module in your Snakefile:

```python
from hydra_genetics.utils.misc import get_module_snakefile

module reports:
    snakefile: get_module_snakefile(config, "hydra-genetics/reports", path="workflow/Snakefile", tag="v0.2.0")
    config: config

use rule * from reports as reports_*
```

### Overriding rules

Sometimes it might be required to overload only a certain input for a rule. This is however currently not possible with Snakemake&mdash;every input has to be redefined when overloading the rule. You can however make use of the `workflow` object.

Given the example above, let's say we want to overload the `tc_file` input and the associated `tc` and `tc_method` parameters for the rule `cnv_html_report`, but use the default for everything else, we could do this:

```python
use rule cnv_html_report from reports as reports_cnv_html_report with:
    input:
        json=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").input.json,
        html_template=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").input.html_template,
        css_files=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").input.css_files,
        js_files=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").input.js_files,
        tc_file="{sample}_{type}.tc.txt",
    params:
        include_table=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").params.include_table,
        include_cytobands=workflow.get_rule("reports_cnv_html_report").params.include_cytobands,
        tc=lambda wc: open("{sample}_{type}.tc.txt".format(**wc)).read().strip(),
        tc_method="override",
```

If wildcards are being used, make sure that those wildcards are also defined in the output section of that particular rule for things to function as expected.

## Versioning caveat

The module makes use of the release-please Github action, meaning that the templates get tagged with the version number every time a new release is published. This means that only reports generated from the main branch are guaranteed to be 100% accurate when it comes the version. Any commit between releases will have the version of the most recent release associated with it.
